Actions are another key building block,
or component of GitHub Actions.
And actually, when we got started
with GitHub Actions and our first Workflows,
I often said that we're creating an Action.
But what I actually meant was that we created a Workflow,
because technically there is a difference,
and an Action is a separate feature offered
by GitHub Actions.
and an Action,
in the context of GitHub Actions,
is simply a custom or third-party application
that performs a typically complex, frequently repeated task.
Like for example,
fetching the code from a GitHub Repository,
and downloading it onto such a runner machine.
Now, the alternative to such an Action
is a command that's defined with help of the
"run" keyword in your YAML file.
And that's what we saw before, and what we used before,
in this first Action.
With this "run" command
we simply execute typically simple shell commands
on that runner machine,
and these commands are, well,
written down and defined by us.
Now, of course, these commands could
in theory also get more complex.
You could also run more complex scripts
with help of these commands.
So it's not always necessarily a simple process
that's started with such a command,
but it will be a command, written by you, in your YAML file.
Now, Actions on the other hand,
are these predefined applications,
which actually also can be distributed
through a marketplace,
because you can build your own Actions,
and will do that later in the course,
but you can also use official, or community Actions.
And now here, back in this project,
where we wanna download code from the Repository
onto this runner,
we can use such an Action,
because this is such a common task,
that an Action for it exists.
We could write our own command that uses Git
to clone the code from the Repository onto this machine,
but this is simply unnecessary work,
because for this extremely common task,
an Action has been created.
And you can search for GitHub Action Checkout
to find this official Checkout Action.
And this is actually a really official Action,
that is created and maintained by the GitHub team.
There also are other Actions, which are created
and maintained by other companies,
or by simple community members,
so, open source Actions,
and you could create your own Actions,
but this is an Action created by the GitHub team.
Now you see that here on this Repository,
I can actually view this on the Marketplace because,
as mentioned, there is a Marketplace for these Actions.
Now it's called Marketplace,
but these actions don't cost you money.
Instead, they are free,
but this Marketplace is a central place where
you can browse different Actions.
Now you see that here for this Checkout Action,
it's from a verified creator, by the GitHub team.
And this badge can give you some extra confidence,
in that this Action isn't doing anything malicious,
or anything like that.
And by the way, later in the course
we'll also dive into security, and GitHub Actions,
and certain things you should watch out for.
So this is a verified creator,
this is this Checkout Action,
and here we find some instructions
on how we can use this Action,
though we will use it together in a second.
Now, before we use it though,
I wanna go to this Marketplace here.
Now here you find all kinds of Actions you can use.
Actually, you find Apps and Actions.
Apps are a different GitHub feature,
for us, Actions are interesting.
And here you find a broad variety
of Actions for all kinds of tasks you might wanna perform.
You can use an action to install Node.js,
though the runner we're using actually has it pre-installed,
but if you would be using a different runner,
without Node.js, you could use this Action
to install Node.js.
And as you can tell, there are a broad variety
of Actions for all kinds of things.
Now here, I'll search for this Checkout Action again,
because that's the Action we need right now.
And now we'll actually use that Action.